---
query_date: 2025-12-04 19:21:01 UTC
objective: Research best UI patterns for card/table view toggles in dashboard interfaces as of December 2024, focusing on accessibility, icon choices, and placement recommendations
search_queries: ["card table view toggle UI pattern 2024","shadcn ui view toggle component","dashboard view switcher accessibility","grid list toggle best practices"]
result_count: 0
project: zebra-h2b-audit-v2
tool: mcp__parallel_search__web_search_preview
---

# Parallel Search: Research best UI patterns for card/table view toggles in dashboard interfaces as of December 2024, focusing on accessibility, icon choices, and placement recommendations

**Search Queries:** ["card table view toggle UI pattern 2024","shadcn ui view toggle component","dashboard view switcher accessibility","grid list toggle best practices"]

**Results:** 0

## Response

```json
[
  {
    "type": "text",
    "text": "{\n  \"search_id\": \"search_84a2b484747d461a99a9e82b85774678\",\n  \"results\": [\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://www.pencilandpaper.io/articles/ux-pattern-analysis-data-dashboards\",\n      \"title\": \"Dashboard Design UX Patterns Best Practices\",\n      \"publish_date\": \"2025-01-02\",\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"We recommend:\\n\\n* Following [navigation patterns and best practices](https://pencilandpaper.io/articles/ux-pattern-analysis-navigation/) – so that when people reach the dashboard experience they are at an advantage compared to a disadvantage – brain cells shouldn’t be wasted on weird nav, especially when you have data to analyze\\n\\n### Getting Oriented\\n\\n**AKA figuring out what you’re looking at. ** Upon navigating to the page itself. This is the moment where the user viewing this page does the mental lift of figuring out: what the page is for, what it’s showing me, what it’s meant to do, if they can achieve their task or their goal here or not. We recommend:\\n\\n* A clear page title – so people can immediately know what the point of the page is overall\\n* A clear description of the page – so people can understand what they can do there\\n\\nWe recommend:\\n\\n* Charts and graphs are conceptually grouped together – so that people can understand what should be considered together and separately.\\n ... \\n‍\\n\\nWe recommend:\\n\\n* Interaction feedback – use success and error feedback as needed (we suggest brushing up on these patterns)\\n* Multi-select – make sure that multiselect interactions are obvious and have appropriate affordances which you can’t miss.Consider if the best way to show feedback is contextualized or more global. * Prioritize actions – make the most important the most noticeable and the least important, the least noticeable\\n* For multiple actions, they can be housed in a dropdown button (see more on table actions and high quality interactions)\\n\\nNow that we’ve reviewed dashboard experiences in a holistic way, now it’s time to dig in more into the data visualization, layouts, cards and the like. Let’s go!\\n ... \\n‍\\n\\n## Layout UI patterns for dashboards\\n\\n### Intuitive page layout\\n\\nDashboard UX design and UI are very closely related. On such a critical page, you need to optimize content placement for the way your users will scan the page. This key page acts as a homebase with strategic entry points into more granular flows. Users should be able to click a module or chart and enter a dedicated page for that data type. To optimize that behaviour, consider the typical eye-scanning patterns that are true for web pages. For left-to-right (LTR) language speakers, those would be the F and Z patterns. The F shape suggests that the eye will naturally get drawn to the top-left corner at first and then scan horizontally, before zig-zagging (that’s the Z) down the page, again starting from left to right for the following sections or rows.\\n_Eye-tracking research shows that users tend to scan webpages in “F” and “Z” shapes_\\n\\nSince the top left area gets more attention, that’s where you want to showcase the most global numbers, or the most relevant data. You’ll want to structure your charts and graphs into related sections going top-down. Starting of course with the most important at the top, following with a global overview in the middle, and wrapping up with a more detailed breakdown at the bottom. Research around the F pattern proves that the further down users get on a page, the less they scan the full width of the row. So again, make sure to stick the important stuff on the left side. ### Consistent card layout\\n\\nCard layouts are very common for data dashboards and come in many shapes and sizes. A card layout doesn’t mean all your charts are visually enclosed in a distinct “div”.\\nIt just means that your charts and graphs are treated the same way, consistently placed along their title, labels, legend and other accessories. You’ll want to study the best way to layout your graphs inside their cards. Make sure you decide on a solution that can allow for different types of graphs, and that leaves room for recurring elements like key values, date pickers and legends. Here, consistency is key. You’ll help your users a lot if they can quickly find the title on the top left of each module, or the legend always at the bottom center. That’ll help reduce visual noise when they scan the page. ## Chart UX patterns you can use\\n\\nNow that you’ve nailed down the page structure that works best for your users and your data, let’s zoom in a little and explore ways to elevate the charts and graphs you present in your dashboard. Think of it this way: how much _extra love_ do your out-of-the-box graphs deserve?\\n ... \\n_Blues and oranges provide the same levels of vibrancy and contrast as greens and reds, without your UI feeling like a trading terminal_\\n\\nWhen exploring colours, it’s important to keep accessibility in mind. To ensure good visibility, make sure the colours you choose have high enough contrast against your background colour. ### Lines, fills and textures\\n\\nAgain with accessibility in mind, it’s considered best practice not to rely on colour alone. Look for ways to add some hashes or texture in your fills and your legends. _We can build a lot of variety from a single base colour_\\n\\nThe same holds true for lines. A line chart with a bunch of solid lines in different colours can quickly become hard to interpret. You can add in a variety of styles of dotted lines.\\n ... \\n### Responsiveness\\n\\nWhen adapting your dashboard UX design for mobile, the first question to ask is whether all the information is relevant for your users’ “on-the-go” scenarios. Try to understand what they need to see when they’re not sitting at their desk. Chances are they don’t need it all and you’ll save yourself a whole lot of work. Maybe only display that top section, the most important or global data, and fit it in a vertical layout instead? _A stacked bar chart in its desktop horizontal version_\\n\\n‍\\n\\nThe same stacked bar chart adapted to a vertical layout for mobile\\n\\n‍\\n\\n‍\\n\\nThere’s also no harm in indicating that this page  or a particular chart is better experienced on a larger screen, or to encourage them to flip their mobile in landscape mode. ### Data labels on charts\\n\\nIn general, labels are central to excellent UX design, dashboard design is no exception. When dealing with large timescales or datasets, negotiating space might become a bit tricky.\\n ... \\n_Here we’ve got one endpoint per week, but only display labels for Quarters to provide the high-level trends & projections_\\n\\nYou can prevent some of these issues by limiting the length of the selectable filters or date range to ensure users can only select as much as the viewport can offer. Finally, there’s always the option of coding a horizontal scroll. But for this, watch out for where the scrollbar will appear and account for the room it’ll take up! ### Typography & hierarchy\\n\\nWhen looking at trendy _dribbbl-y_ dashboards, we often see big bold numbers in a stylish display font. When done well, these typographic accents can really help the functionality of your dashboard. They do a great job at catching the eye. If you’ve done your research and identified the right numbers to accentuate this way, it demonstrates confidence and decisiveness.\\nFrom the user’s perspective, it means you’ve done your job, you know what your users are looking for and you’ve made sure the system is effectively keeping track of these data points. All-around trust-builder. And karma points. ## Interactive graphs and charts\\n\\nOkay, now that our charts and graphs are neat and consistent inside their page structure, let’s look at interactions we can offer our users. To avoid barraging the user with data, you can borrow some of the concepts of progressive disclosure. Offering gentle reveals and visual emphasis upon the user’s request really helps mitigate overwhelm and confusion. Here are a few interactive UX patterns that embrace those principles. ### Tooltips & hover states\\n\\nHover states are the perfect way to hide that secondary layer of detail while avoiding visual noise. Since the goal of the dashboard is to provide an at-a-glance snapshot, the visual of bars or lines should be enough for users to sense the trends.\\nBut revealing additional detail upon hover is a great use of progressive disclosure. That way your users can leverage it when needed, and it doesn’t clutter the page by default. ### Toggling variables\\n\\nAnother interaction that could be relevant for some of your charts is the turning on and off of certain variables. Let’s say the default view of a line chart presents 7 different lines. It might be useful for the user to hide some of those endpoints so they can focus on comparing a smaller selection. This can be implemented by making your legend items into a checkbox list. ### Filters within dashboards\\n\\n🥅 We wrote a full [piece on filtering](https://pencilandpaper.io/articles/user-experience/ux-pattern-analysis-enterprise-filtering/) targeted to enterprise software needs, have a look! In short, you can offer your users a full-page filter sidebar (or horizontal bar for that matter) but this means the filter selection affects the whole page —i.e. every single chart at once.\\nIt’s always useful to have filters always accessible; consider a fixed header for users to easily initiate them as they navigate the page. Another option is to have smaller filter options inside each module or section. That way, users can be specific in what they want to see. They could filter the top section by location, and then select a specific date range for the middle section. ### Custom personalized dashboard pattern examples\\n\\nNow, if you really want to go all out and you know from your users that the dashboard is where they spend most of their time, you might want to build some customization options. This can take many shapes. You could allow them to move modules around, and reorganize the order of the sections by drag-and-dropping. (Fancy!) You can also let them hide and show some sections. You might even want to consider integrating a custom “build your own dashboard” flow in the onboarding UX.\\n ... \\nOr have you just forgotten to put in an informative empty state? Empty states are relevant across your UI at key moments throughout...](/articles/empty-states)\\n\\n[### Consistency and Standards Consistency is a crucial aspect of design because it addresses one of the main goals of design: reducing cognitive load and helping people complete their task. This is...](/articles/consistency-and-standards)\\n\\n## Download our Table UX Audit Checklist\\n\\nDo a mini UX audit on your table views & find your trouble spots with this free guide. Available in a printable version (pdf). _Please fill in the form below and it will be in your inbox shortly after._\\n\\nWhats your name? Whats your email? \\\\*\\n\\nCan we email you? Yes, I'd like to receive marketing emails from Pencil & Paper\\n\\nThis form collects your name and email so we can add you to our email list and send you our newsletter full of helpful insights and updates.\\n ... \\n[Our services](/services-2024)\\n\\n### Join our newsletter\\n\\n### Bringing enterprise-grade UX resources into the world to help you think better and have more interesting conversations with your crew! [Newsletter sign up](/newsletter)\\n\\n[### Data Tables Checklist ### This free checklist lets you double check your data tables for their UX quality and assess various aspects which make or break the data table experience for your users. PDF ##### Free](/product/data-tables-ux-checklist-download)\\n\\n### Explore our UX/UI Services\\n\\n### Curious about the possibility of working with the P&P crew on your enterprise software project? Check out our services. [Our services](/services-2024)\\n\\n### Join our newsletter\\n\\n### Bringing enterprise-grade UX resources into the world to help you think better and have more interesting conversations with your crew! [Newsletter sign up](/newsletter)\\n\\n## Interaction Design Masterclass\\n\\nReady to level up with a 1 hour masterclass full of real, enterprise-grade examples?\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://medium.com/@CarlosSmith24/dashboard-ui-ux-design-tips-for-clean-and-functional-layouts-34eaac191bef\",\n      \"title\": \"Dashboard UI/UX Design Tips for Clean and Functional ...\",\n      \"publish_date\": null,\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"Strategic Placement: Place the most critical information and KPIs at the top-left (following Western F-pattern or Z-pattern reading habits).\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://medium.com/design-bootcamp/when-to-use-which-component-a-case-study-of-card-view-vs-table-view-7f5a6cff557b\",\n      \"title\": \"Large data display: Cards or a table? | by Maeve Shen\",\n      \"publish_date\": \"2024-07-26\",\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"[Sitemap](/sitemap/sitemap.xml)\\n\\n[Open in app](https://rsci.app.link/?%24canonical_url=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fp%2F7f5a6cff557b&%7Efeature=LoOpenInAppButton&%7Echannel=ShowPostUnderCollection&%7Estage=mobileNavBar&source=post_page---top_nav_layout_nav-----------------------------------------)\\n\\nSign up\\n\\n[Sign in](/m/signin?operation=login&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2Fwhen-to-use-which-component-a-case-study-of-card-view-vs-table-view-7f5a6cff557b&source=post_page---top_nav_layout_nav-----------------------global_nav------------------)\\n\\n[](/?source=post_page---top_nav_layout_nav-----------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Write](/m/signin?operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fnew-story&source=---top_nav_layout_nav-----------------------new_post_topnav------------------)\\n\\n[Search](/search?source=post_page---top_nav_layout_nav-----------------------------------------)\\n\\nSign up\\n\\n[Sign\\nin](/m/signin?operation=login&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2Fwhen-to-use-which-component-a-case-study-of-card-view-vs-table-view-7f5a6cff557b&source=post_page---top_nav_layout_nav-----------------------global_nav------------------)\\n\\n[## Bootcamp](https://medium.com/design-bootcamp?source=post_page---publication_nav-48e972f5c24e-7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n·\\n\\n[](https://medium.com/design-bootcamp?source=post_page---post_publication_sidebar-48e972f5c24e-7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\nFrom idea to product, one lesson at a time. To submit your story: <https://tinyurl.com/bootspub1>\\n\\n# Large data display: Cards or a table?\\n[](/@chiahoushen?source=post_page---byline--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Maeve Shen](/@chiahoushen?source=post_page---byline--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n4 min read\\n\\n·\\n\\nMay 11, 2024\\n\\n[](/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2F7f5a6cff557b&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2Fwhen-to-use-which-component-a-case-study-of-card-view-vs-table-view-7f5a6cff557b&user=Maeve+Shen&userId=5361a250086f&source=---header_actions--7f5a6cff557b---------------------clap_footer------------------)\\n\\n\\\\--\\n\\n[](/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2F7f5a6cff557b&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2Fwhen-to-use-which-component-a-case-study-of-card-view-vs-table-view-7f5a6cff557b&source=---header_actions--7f5a6cff557b---------------------bookmark_footer------------------)\\n\\nListen\\n\\nShare\\n\\nExplore the visual and functional\\ndifferences between cards and tables to determine the best way to present your data. Press enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nWhen designing a website for B2B SaaS, we often encounter the question of what the best way to present data is. For instance, when designing an interface for sellers to manage their products, should we opt for a table view or a card view to convey the information? ## Research Definitions to Learn Its Usage\\n\\nMy initial step in component analysis is to consult established and reliable documentation sources, such as MDN Web Docs, or well-known component libraries like Bootstrap and Material Design, to understand the definition of a component. Given that many components have been in use for decades, there’s no need to reinvent the wheel. Instead of relying solely on intuition, it is more effective to refer to credible resources and conduct thorough research.\\n### Card\\n\\nA card component is a content container which usually includes a title, an image, and a description in various formats, **_serving as an entrance of information._**\\n\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nSource: Bootstrap\\n\\nReferences:\\n\\n> MDN Web Docs: “A card typically includes a **title** , an **image** , a **description** or other content, and an attribution or footer. It is often part of a group or collection of cards.”\\n> \\n> Bootstrap: defines a card component as a flexible and versatile **content container** . Content within a card can vary in size and format, and it optionally supports headers and footers. > \\n> Arco Design: states that “Card is generally used as a **concise introduction** or a large plate and **entrance of information** .”\\n> \\n>\\n\\n### Table\\n\\nA table is used for data collection, analysis, and processing, allowing users to easily **_look up values, compare data, sort information, and perform single or batch actions_** .\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nSource: [Carbon Design](https://carbondesignsystem.com/components/data-table/usage/) from IBM\\n\\nReferences:\\n\\n> Arco Design: “It is used for **data collection** , **display** , **analysis** and **processing** , and **operation** and **processing** .”\\n> \\n> MDN Web Docs: “A table allows you to **quickly** and **easily look up values** that indicate some kind of **connection between different types of data** , for example a person and their age, or a day of the week, or the timetable for a local swimming pool.”\\n> \\n> Carbon Design: “The data table’s features are ideal for **organizing** and **displaying data** in a UI. The column headers can **sort data** in ascending or descending order, rows can be expanded to progressively disclose information, and **single or batch actions** can be taken on rows.”\\n> \\n> \\n\\n## Analyze Visual Differences to Identify Original Needs\\n\\nWe have to understand that components look different for practical reasons.\\nTheir distinct appearances serve different purposes and user needs. By contrasting visual differences, you can gain insights into how they are used differently and the types of problems they address. Press enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nSource: Bootstrap\\n\\nFrom a visual perspective, cards seem more efficient in communicating…\\n\\n* Information accompanied by an **image** , combining messages with the card title\\n* **Descriptive information** about the “Title” that requires users to concentrate and read\\n* A teaser to draw attention with **a link** for users to click and **learn more** on another page\\n\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nPredicted Eye Movement\\n\\nUsers tend to glance at the images and card titles, as they typically carry the most visual weight, to identify items of interest. Once a relevant item is located, users skim through the short description and proceed to click on a link or button to explore further.\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nSource: Carbon Design\\n\\nOn the other hand, a table is more efficient when there is a need to…\\n\\n* View a whole collection of data and **quickly find specific information. **\\n* **Sort** , **filter** , **compare** , and **analyze** data. * Make selections and execute **actions in bulk. **\\n\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nPredicted Eye Movement\\n\\nTypically, the table header holds greater visual prominence than the body, and our reading habits often lead us to focus on the column headers initially. Consequently, users scan the column headers to understand the information being presented. They then identify a subject of interest and find the corresponding column. This eye movement is generally aimed at retrieving specific information. ## Conclusions\\n\\nCard and Table represent two distinct views of data presentation. While there are no strict rules dictating when to use each, there are best practices to consider.\\n**Cards** signify individual items and are commonly employed when there are _multiple items of potential interest to users_ . Featuring a title and brief details, cards help users quickly identify and _select topics they wish to explore further, usually leading to more detailed, text-heavy information._\\n\\n**Tables** consolidate multiple items for users to _compare, analyze, and process collectively_ . By presenting data in a table view, users are more likely to _retrieve specific information and perform bulk actions_ such as updating or removing multiple data entries.\\n[Design Systems](/tag/design-systems?source=post_page-----7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Ui Library](/tag/ui-library?source=post_page-----7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Components](/tag/components?source=post_page-----7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Component Analysis](/tag/component-analysis?source=post_page-----7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Best Practices](/tag/best-practices?source=post_page-----7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[](/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2F7f5a6cff557b&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2Fwhen-to-use-which-component-a-case-study-of-card-view-vs-table-view-7f5a6cff557b&user=Maeve+Shen&userId=5361a250086f&source=---footer_actions--7f5a6cff557b---------------------clap_footer------------------)\\n\\n\\\\--\\n[](/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2F7f5a6cff557b&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2Fwhen-to-use-which-component-a-case-study-of-card-view-vs-table-view-7f5a6cff557b&user=Maeve+Shen&userId=5361a250086f&source=---footer_actions--7f5a6cff557b---------------------clap_footer------------------)\\n\\n\\\\--\\n\\n[](/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fbookmark%2Fp%2F7f5a6cff557b&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2Fdesign-bootcamp%2Fwhen-to-use-which-component-a-case-study-of-card-view-vs-table-view-7f5a6cff557b&source=---footer_actions--7f5a6cff557b---------------------bookmark_footer------------------)\\n\\n[](https://medium.com/design-bootcamp?source=post_page---post_publication_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[](https://medium.com/design-bootcamp?source=post_page---post_publication_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[## Published in\\nBootcamp](https://medium.com/design-bootcamp?source=post_page---post_publication_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[95K followers](/design-bootcamp/followers?source=post_page---post_publication_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n· [Last published 1 hour ago](/design-bootcamp/opinion-the-great-ai-monotony-8ccb6c4e538d?source=post_page---post_publication_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\nFrom idea to product, one lesson at a time.\\nTo submit your story: <https://tinyurl.com/bootspub1>\\n\\n[](/@chiahoushen?source=post_page---post_author_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[](/@chiahoushen?source=post_page---post_author_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[## Written by Maeve Shen](/@chiahoushen?source=post_page---post_author_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[26 followers](/@chiahoushen/followers?source=post_page---post_author_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\n· [6 following](/@chiahoushen/following?source=post_page---post_author_info--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\\n\\nProduct Designer | B2B-Focused 🤓 System thinker with a passion for DesignOps, dedicated to unraveling complexities and forging connections. ## No responses yet\\n\\n[](https://policy.medium.com/medium-rules-30e5502c4eb4?source=post_page---post_responses--7f5a6cff557b---------------------------------------)\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://dribbble.com/search/list-view-card\",\n      \"title\": \"Browse list view card designs\",\n      \"publish_date\": null,\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"Explore thousands of high-quality list view card images on Dribbble. Your resource to get inspired, discover and connect with designers worldwide.\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://www.targit.com/en/blog/transform-dashboards-with-targits-object-toggling-feature\",\n      \"title\": \"Transform Your Dashboards With TARGIT's Object Toggling Feature\",\n      \"publish_date\": \"2025-10-20\",\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"* [en](/en)\\n* [blog](/en/blog)\\n* transform dashboards with targits object toggling feature\\n\\n3 min read\\n\\n# Transform Your Dashboards With TARGIT’s Object Toggling Feature\\n\\n[Niels Thomsen](https://www.targit.com/en/blog/author/niels-thomsen)\\n\\nSolution Architect\\n\\nTransform Your Dashboards With TARGIT’s Object Toggling Feature\\n\\n5:26\\n\\nSince finalizing our stateless architecture in 2023, TARGIT ‘s development team has been continuously enhancing customers’ experience with new features and updates, inspired by questions and requests from our interactive [Community Forum](https://community.targit.com/hc/en-us) . One such feature is Object Toggling, which leverages newly enhanced Trigger functionality to help TARGIT Designer users create dynamic, multi-view dashboards that simplify data navigation and improve the user experience. Now, you can say goodbye to cluttered dashboards and endless tabs and hello to a clean, powerful workspace.\\n[**See use cases for Object Toggling and other new features at our webinar on Dec. 16** **th**](/resources/webinars/2024-roundup-tips-tricks-new-features) Let’s dive into several of the key benefits of TARGIT’s Object Toggling feature: ## Toggle Between Multiple Views in One Dashboard One of the most powerful aspects of Object Toggling is its ability to house multiple dashboard views in a single design. Imagine having a default view that shows top-level department Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), with the option to toggle detailed insights on demand. With Object Toggling, your dashboards become more than just static reports — they become dynamic, interactive portals that can be customized to various end-user needs. Users can simply click the SHOW/HIDE/TOGGLE buttons to reveal or hide relevant data without the hassle of loading a new dashboard for each detail view. Whether an executive, manager, or analyst, everyone can find exactly what they need on the same dashboard.\\nIt’s also highly valuable for users who need both a quick overview and detailed analyses of various data sets. Create one sales dashboard, then use toggles to set up a high-level overview for the C-Suite, detailed KPI analyses for managers, and a comparative view that helps individual employees see how they stack up to their peers. Or design a dynamic dashboard that gives analysts multi-level insights so they can view everything from an illustrative overview of KPIs to the in-depth data points behind each key metric all in one place. ## Create Clear, Clutter-Free Dashboards TARGIT’s Object Toggling feature also introduces enhanced menu design and customization options, so Designers can easily hide non-essential tools and information to open up more space on the design canvas. You can now adjust the visibility of objects, menu items, and triggers.\\nFor example, collapse menus into the navigation bar and hide unnecessary objects or filters from the design canvas, freeing up more space for critical data points. Plus, optimize navigation by collapsing objects and triggers into a custom menu bar. This allows you to surface and emphasize the most valuable information for your end-users. When you use design canvas space more economically, users can refer to a single, dynamic dashboard with toggles rather than switching between several disjointed views. You can also build presentation-ready dashboards by removing menus and other non-essential items from the design. ## Improve End-User Engagement With Help and Guidance Object Toggling also introduces a new “focus mode” in which Designers can set triggers to highlight documentation or a specific KPI object on-click, while dimming the rest of the screen. This makes it exceptionally clear to end-users what they should be viewing or which actions to take next.\\nYou can also enhance your dashboards with help text, tooltips, or other forms of guidance that expand when clicked. Combined with “focus mode,” these personalized callouts can help you guide end-users through certain actions, like running an analysis or digging deeper into top-level KPIs. The best part? Since captions and other UI tools can be toggled on and off, you get all the benefits of contextual help and guidance without cluttering the dashboard with permanent explanatory text. New or infrequent users can now navigate with confidence, aided by embedded help features that are only a click away. ## How to Start Using TARGIT's Object Toggling Feature With TARGIT’s Object Toggling, your BI dashboards become more flexible, user-friendly tools that cater to a variety of end-users and empower them to dive into the details they need right when they need them.\\nStart using this new feature today to: * **Design Multi-View Dashboards:** Use toggles to set up multiple dashboard views for specific data insights. * **Set Up SHOW/HID E/TOGGLE Triggers:** Create custom triggers to reveal or hide different objects or groups of data. * **Create a Custom Criteria Bar** : Collapse criteria directly into the menu, making filters and slicers easily accessible and freeing up valuable space. * **Add Powerful Context for End-Users** : Give users guidance and explanations by embedding help text and tooltips in toggle-enabled buttons. Object Toggling was automatically available to customers on TARGIT Cloud from December 4, 2024, and will be released for on-premises download in Q1 2025. To learn more about Object Toggling and see technical documentation, [read our detailed article](https://community.targit.com/hc/en-us/articles/15964747498012-Trigger-Object-Toggling-visibility) on the TARGIT Community forum. Want to see this powerful feature in action?\\nExplore tips, tricks, and use cases for Object Toggling and other new features by [joining our live webinar](https://www.targit.com/resources/webinars/2024-roundup-tips-tricks-new-features) on December 16th. [Data Visualization](https://www.targit.com/en/blog/tag/data-visualization) [Product Updates](https://www.targit.com/en/blog/tag/product-updates)\\n\\nPublished December 9, 2024.\\nUpdated January 17, 2025\\n\\n[](https://twitter.com/intent/tweet?text=Transform%20Your%20Dashboards%20With%20TARGIT’s%20Object%20Toggling%20Feature&url=https://www.targit.com/en/blog/transform-dashboards-with-targits-object-toggling-feature) [](http://www.linkedin.com/shareArticle?url=https://www.targit.com/en/blog/transform-dashboards-with-targits-object-toggling-feature) [](https://www.facebook.com/sharer/sharer.php?u=https://www.targit.com/en/blog/transform-dashboards-with-targits-object-toggling-feature&quote=Transform%20Your%20Dashboards%20With%20TARGIT’s%20Object%20Toggling%20Feature)\\n\\nWritten by\\n\\n[Niels Thomsen](https://www.targit.com/en/blog/author/niels-thomsen)\\n\\nSolution Architect\\n\\n## You Might Like...\\n\\n[Webinar #### The Review Revolution: Using Feedback to Drive Measurable Dealer Growth](https://www.targit.com/resources/webinars/the-review-revolution-with-satisfyd)\\n\\n[Webinar #### Explore Web-Based Editing and New 2025\\nFeatures](https://www.targit.com/resources/webinars/web-based-editing-feature-highlights-2025)\\n\\n[Webinar #### Deep Dive into TARGIT InMemory: 2025 Edition (English Session)](https://www.targit.com/resources/webinars/deep-dive-into-targit-inmemory)\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://medium.com/@chiaracielo/accessible-cards-by-design-4741e2158bb4\",\n      \"title\": \"Accessible cards by design. | by Chiara Cielo Longobardi ...\",\n      \"publish_date\": \"2024-09-24\",\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"in](/m/signin?operation=login&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40chiaracielo%2Faccessible-cards-by-design-4741e2158bb4&source=post_page---top_nav_layout_nav-----------------------global_nav------------------)\\n\\n# Accessible cards by design\\n\\n## A discussion on how a card should be designed to be accessible by design.\\n ... \\n[perplexity.ai](https://www.perplexity.ai/) . [See the original in italian](/@chiaracielo/card-accessibili-by-design-921fffdfd030) →\\n> \\n> \\n\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\n**A card is a visual element that encapsulates all possible information and actions related to a single topic. ** They are widely used in the digital world, both on the web and in apps we interact with daily. They are so commons thanks to their effectiveness in visual and communicative terms: by respecting some basic graphic design rules (see the [Gestalt principles](https://sketchplanations.com/gestalt-principles) and the derived concept of “ [friendship between UI elements](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/nbabich_ui-userinterface-uidesign-activity-7231245244032270336-LYgr/) ”), an element that clearly and practically contains all useful information can be created. My personal experience as a user of cards began with Pinterest around 2011.\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nCards on Pinterest in 2011, retrieved via <https://web.archive.org/>\\n\\nSince then, I have seen them more frequently, likely thanks to Material Design, which from its very [first version](https://m1.material.io/components/cards.html) in 2014 included **cards** among its components. Despite being around for several years and widely used in various contexts (from e-commerce to news and entertainment sites, to online course platforms), **cards are not a standard element of HTML** . This results in many ways they are implemented, and not all are necessarily ideal in terms of accessibility. You can find a lot of useful information in the article “ [Cards](https://inclusive-components.design/cards/) ” by [Heydon Pickering](https://twitter.com/heydonworks) and in Nicola Mascotto’s speech for Accessibility Days 2024: “ [Componenti web di tipo ‘Card’](https://youtu.be/JtdYVkS5hHI?si=3vaobCtkxF8VHnof) .” (Yes, unfortunately in Italian!)\\nWe will return to some topics later, but I leave it to them to discuss HTML. # How can you create a card that is accessible by design? As a designer, my first approach to cards was around 2019, following the guidelines of [Material Design 2](https://m2.material.io/components/cards) . In particular, since I had to manage secondary actions, I positioned them in the top right corner, following one of the options proposed for supplemental actions ( [overflow menu](https://m2.material.io/components/cards) ). Press enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nAt the time, I knew very little about accessibility. From a design perspective, it seemed like a good choice: sharing and adding to favorites were visible but spatially distanced from the main content. Additionally, it was a pattern already seen and widely used, which ensured that users navigating the interface would have a sense of familiarity and wouldn’t have to learn something new.\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nOther examples of cards with secondary actions on the top right corner. Even today, it is common to see this type of design around the web (to name a few: Airbnb, Booking, Indiegogo, Etsy), and although it is not explicitly proposed as in the previous version, some traces of it can still be found in the documentation of [Material Design 3](https://m3.material.io/components/cards/overview) . Press enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nMaterial 3 Design Kit in Figma\\n\\nIn Material Design 3, there is also a section dedicated to accessibility, which contains many interesting insights, but it still lacks some detailed explanations regarding the composition and positioning of elements. **Is a card, like the one I designed in 2019 with secondary actions in the top right corner, accessible? ** Quick answer: **by design, no. **\\n\\nAt least not always, not exactly. Let me explain why.\\n> _If the card triggers multiple actions (both primary and secondary), it cannot be implemented as a single element (to simplify, a link cannot contain another link). There are various strategies to create a clickable area as extensive as possible, but care must be taken to make accessible choices (once again, I refer you to the article “_ [_Cards_](https://inclusive-components.design/cards/) _” by_ [_Heydon Pickering_](https://twitter.com/heydonworks) _and_ _Nicola Mascotto’s speech_ _for Accessibility Days 2024)._\\n> \\n>\\n\\n## Meaningful sequence\\n\\nLet’s go back to analyzing my design and **imagine reading the card content using only a screen reader, without seeing the content** .\\nIf we were to read the information on the card following the reading order (top to bottom, left to right), we would get something like this: `add to favorites, share, title, subtitle, description, and details.`\\n\\n**The first thing to be read or activated would be the secondary actions** , namely the buttons for adding to favorites or sharing, **even before knowing the main information contained on the card** . The sequence in which the information is read or activated does not make much sense, and criterion [1\\\\.3.2: Meaningful Sequence (Level A)](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/meaningful-sequence) is not met. We can certainly provide some **context** , make the sequence clearer, and **improve the accessibility of the cards by adding a label that is read only by the screen reader** , pairing the title of the card with the secondary actions.\\nThis way, we would achieve something like: `add \\\"title\\\" to favorites, share \\\"title\\\", title, subtitle, description, and details.`\\n\\nCertainly, the situation is **clearer, and formally accessible, but still far from the ideal experience! **\\n\\n## Focus order\\n\\nUntil recently, I thought it could be resolved quite simply: **by instructing the screen reader on which sequence to follow** , reading the main information and actions first, and only then the secondary ones. Indicate a reading sequence is not an “inaccessible” behavior per se; on the contrary, in some situations — such as a form where input fields are side by side — specifying the desired sequence is essential for ensuring correct comprehension.\\n> _If you want to know more on how to design and document the experience for screen reader users, you’ll find a lot of interesting information in the guide:_ [_How to document the screen reader user experience_](https://bbc.github.io/accessibility-news-and-you/guides/screen-reader-ux.html) _._\\n> \\n> \\n\\nWith a bit of generosity, we can extend this strategy to some cards with a design similar to the one of the following image, choosing to read the content as if it were in a table and thus reading the entire first column (the one with the information) before moving on to the next (the one with the icons). However, in this case, the title and actions are on the same level, and we can consider them as being in two different columns since they occupy two different vertical spaces. Press enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nOur case is different because the information is on two distinct levels. I also need to consider the criterion regarding [2\\\\.4.3.\\nFocus Order](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/focus-order) . Now, let’s **imagine using a keyboard to navigate, seeing the entire page or just part of it** (those using a magnifier see only a portion of the page at a time, just like those with a limited field of vision). The expectation is that elements activate consistently with the visual reading order so that users do not “get lost” on the page by jumping from one element to another. Choosing a reading sequence that reads the elements at the bottom first and then returns to the icons at the top of the card **does not respect the criterion regarding focus order** . In theory, it’s possible to decide to set a different focus order if navigation occurs via keyboard or screen reader. See this section on Understanding [Focus Order](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/focus-order) .\\n ... \\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nSo we need to consider, simplifying a bit, three main groups:\\n\\n1. those who cannot see (and therefore use a screen reader);\\n2. those who can see (with full or partial vision) and navigate using a keyboard;\\n3. **those who can see (with full or partial vision) but still use a screen reader**\\n\\n**For individuals in the last group, it is essential to ensure a comprehensible focus order that is consistent with what they see on the screen! **\\n\\nTherefore, with a design like the one we are analyzing, **every choice is a compromise** . We can allow the **reading order to remain the same for everyone as the visual order** , in which case the secondary actions of the card will be read by screen readers first. If we have specified for screen reader to read the the card title to the secondary actions, **we formally respect both criteria** . However, **the experience for those using a screen reader and who cannot see remains less than ideal** .\\nAlternatively, we can **differentiate the two reading orders** , making the experience ideal for those using a screen reader and who are blind, as well as for those navigating via keyboard (the first two groups, in short). **But by doing so, we are excluding a portion of users: those who use a screen reader while seeing** (that is, everyone falling into group 3). # So how should an accessible card be, by design? At this point, it should be clearer that we need to keep in mind to provide information in such a way that **the visual order also respects the hierarchical meaning order** . An accessible solution by design could therefore be, depending on the needs, one of these:\\n\\nPress enter or click to view image in full size\\n\\nIn this case, a reading would be: `title, subtitle, description, and details, add \\\"title\\\" to favorites, share \\\"title\\\".`\\n\\n**The criteria related to focus order and meaningful sequence are thus both respected.\\n**\\n\\n> _Note: obviously, these two criteria do not only apply to cards, but this reasoning should be kept in mind for any “information block” we design._\\n> \\n> \\n\\nFor the card to be fully accessible by design, we must also ensure that:\\n\\n* the **color contrast is adequate** (for text, buttons in all their states, the card itself, etc. );\\n* **text and calls to action are clea** r and free of jargon;\\n* the **icons used are understandable** , perhaps accompanied by text (which should not be read twice by the screen reader);\\n* the **focus of active elements** (buttons, but also the card itself) **is visible** ;\\n* etc. But that’s another story. I want to thank [Diana Bernabei](https://dianabernabei.medium.com/) and Fiorella De Luca, without whom this flow of thoughts would never have happened. I also thank [Stephanie Hagadorn](https://www.figma.com/@shagadorn) for helping me understand her design choices and for considering how a card should be accessible by design.\\n ... \\n[Accessibility](/tag/accessibility?source=post_page-----4741e2158bb4---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Accessibility Design](/tag/accessibility-design?source=post_page-----4741e2158bb4---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Inclusion](/tag/inclusion?source=post_page-----4741e2158bb4---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[UX Design](/tag/ux-design?source=post_page-----4741e2158bb4---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[Cards](/tag/cards?source=post_page-----4741e2158bb4---------------------------------------)\\n\\n[](/m/signin?actionUrl=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F_%2Fvote%2Fp%2F4741e2158bb4&operation=register&redirect=https%3A%2F%2Fmedium.com%2F%40chiaracielo%2Faccessible-cards-by-design-4741e2158bb4&user=Chiara+Cielo+Longobardi+%28she%2Fher%29&userId=ef0d668583f&source=---footer_actions--4741e2158bb4---------------------clap_footer------------------)\\n\\n\\\\--\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://dribbble.com/search/table-toggle\",\n      \"title\": \"table toggle\",\n      \"publish_date\": null,\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"Explore thousands of high-quality table toggle images on Dribbble. Your resource to get inspired, discover and connect with designers worldwide.\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://thenounproject.com/browse/icons/term/card-view/\",\n      \"title\": \"Browse Free Card-View Icons\",\n      \"publish_date\": null,\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"Find 47 Card-View images and millions more royalty free PNG & vector images from the world's most diverse collection of free icons.\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://medium.com/@rosalie24/top-ui-ux-tips-for-effective-dashboard-layouts-7c5c6f038303\",\n      \"title\": \"Top UI/UX Tips for Effective Dashboard Layouts | by Rosalie - Medium\",\n      \"publish_date\": null,\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"Jun 17, 2025 · Include filters, dropdowns, or toggles to customize views. Allow users to hover for tooltips or click through for more details. Enable drag ...\"\n      ]\n    },\n    {\n      \"url\": \"https://dribbble.com/search/data-table-view-and-details-card\",\n      \"title\": \"data table view and details card\",\n      \"publish_date\": null,\n      \"excerpts\": [\n        \"Explore thousands of high-quality data table view and details card images on Dribbble. Your resource to get inspired, discover and connect with designers ...\"\n      ]\n    }\n  ],\n  \"warnings\": null,\n  \"usage\": [\n    {\n      \"name\": \"sku_search\",\n      \"count\": 1\n    }\n  ]\n}"
  }
]
```
